# 2-Pass Assembler and Emulator for Simple Accumulator-based Machine

This repository contains a 2-pass assembler implemented in C++ for a simple instruction set architecture (ISA) of an accumulator-based machine, along with an emulator to execute the assembled object code.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Assembler Details](#assembler-details)
- [Emulator Details](#emulator-details)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

This project serves as a CS210 course (assembly language programming and computer architecture) project under Prof. Jimson Matthew. The aim is to design and implement a 2-pass assembler capable of translating assembly language programs written for a simple accumulator-based machine into machine code, and subsequently, an emulator to execute the generated machine code.

## Features

- **2-Pass Assembler**: The assembler processes assembly language programs in two passes, handling symbol resolution, generating machine code, and producing an object file and listing file.
  
- **Emulator**: The emulator executes the assembled object code, simulating the behavior of the target accumulator-based machine.

- **Simple Instruction Set**: The instruction set of the target machine is intentionally kept simple to facilitate understanding and implementation. See Instruction set in project description pdf.

## Usage

1. Clone the repository:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/2-pass-assembler.git
    ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

    ```
    cd 2-pass-assembler
    ```

3. Complie & Run the assembler:

    running scripts are given in  Makefile.txt

## Assembler Details

The assembler consists of two passes:

1. **Pass 1**: In the first pass, the assembler scans the assembly code, building a symbol table and resolving symbolic addresses.

2. **Pass 2**: In the second pass, the assembler generates machine code based on the resolved addresses and produces the object code and listing file.

## Emulator Details

The emulator reads the object code generated by the assembler and simulates the behavior of the target accumulator-based machine. It executes each instruction sequentially, updating the accumulator and other relevant registers as necessary. Outputs a memory dump.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any bugs or have suggestions for improvements, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
